Instructor: Let's use
these debugging techniques
to find and fix a bug
in this script.
This script defines
a variable, "beat,"
to be a beatString()
and a variable "sound"
to be a sound constant
from the EarSketch
sound library.
It then has a for loop,
which calls makeBeat()
eight times to put the rhythm
onto track 1 of the DAW
eight times in a row.
When I hit
the run button, though,
I get an error on line 23—
my makeBeat() function call.
And the error message
in the console is
a little bit hard to understand.
It says, "ValueError:
A provided argument
"is not within the set or range
of acceptable values
"for a function."
So since I don't know exactly
what that means
or how to fix it,
I'm going to go ahead
and print out the values
of all the arguments
to the function
using print function in Python.
So I'll say "print sound,
print measure, and print beat."
So every time we go
through this for loop now,
it will tell me
what all the values
of the function arguments are
that I'm using
to call makeBeat().
So now I can press run again
and I can see
those values on the console.
I can see the value of "sound"—
first time I go
through this for loop
is my sound constant
so that seems okay.
And then I can see "measure"
is 0 and then I can see "beat"
is the beatString().
So the problem here
seems to be with "measure"
because "measure"
can't be 0 in EarSketch.
The first measure of the song
is always measure 1.
So that seems to be the issue.
So let me go ahead
and remove the print
of the beatString()
and remove "print sound"
so I can focus
just on the measure.
And then I'm going
to go ahead
and comment out
the makeBeat() function call.
So I can see how this is working
without makeBeat() in there,
see if the script will run
and what the values
of "measure" come out to be.
So I press run there
and now I can see,
as I go through the for loop,
it's printing the value
of "measure" each time
I go through the for loop.
And I can see
it's 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7.
Well that's not right
because I want it to
be 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8.
So to fix that,
I need to change the arguments
to this range function here
to have two arguments,
my starting point, 1,
and then
the stopping condition, 9.
And so if I press run we'll see
what will actually happen.
Now we get
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
which is exactly what I wanted.
So now I can go ahead
and uncomment
the makeBeat() function call
and see if it works now
that I'm sending it
the correct measure numbers.
And now I can listen
to the rhythm
repeated eight times.
[repetitive electronic
bass drum beats]